.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.TH DFY 1 "2026-05-01" "Dotlify 0.11.7" "Dotlify Manual"
.
.SH NAME
dfy \- dotfiles manager built on GNU Stow
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dfy
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIARGS\fR]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Dotlify (\fBdfy\fR) is a Bash framework on top of
.BR stow (8)
for managing dotfiles on Linux and macOS.
.PP
It organises dotfiles into packages — directories under a central
dotfiles repository — and uses GNU Stow to create and remove symlinks
in \fI$HOME\fR.
Each package may carry a \fIREADME.md\fR describing its contents and
dependencies.
.PP
The tool requires \fBbash\fR \(>= 4, \fBstow\fR \(>= 2.3.1, and
\fBfiglet\fR.
On macOS, install these with Homebrew:
.BR "brew install bash stow figlet" .
.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dir " \fIPATH\fR"
Use \fIPATH\fR as the dotfiles repository instead of the configured or
default location.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-profile " \fINAME\fR"
Activate profile \fINAME\fR.
A profile is a plain-text file listing one package per line.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-lang " \fILANG\fR"
Override the UI language (\fBen\fR or \fBes\fR).
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip all confirmation prompts, assuming \*(lqyes\*(rq.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Preview changes without writing anything to disk.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable coloured output.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the Dotlify version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS dfy init [\-\-dir \fIPATH\fR] [\-\-bare]
Initialise a new dotfiles repository.
Creates the directory, runs \fBgit init\fR, scaffolds starter packages
(\fIbash-aliases\fR, \fIzsh-aliases\fR, \fIvim\fR), and writes the
repository path to the config file.
.PP
Use \fB\-\-bare\fR to skip the scaffold and create only the git
repository.
.
.SS dfy apply \fIPKG\fR...
Link one or more packages into \fI$HOME\fR using \fBstow\fR.
Aborts with exit code 3 when a target path already exists as a real
file (run \fBdfy adopt\fR to absorb it first).
.
.SS dfy unlink \fIPKG\fR...
Remove the symlinks created by \fBdfy apply\fR for the given packages.
The package files in the repository are not affected.
.
.SS dfy adopt \fIPKG\fR
Move an existing \fI$HOME\fR file into the \fIPKG\fR package directory
and replace it with a symlink, effectively absorbing it into the
dotfiles repository.
.
.SS dfy status
Show the link status of all packages in the repository.
Packages are shown as linked (\fB[+]\fR), unlinked (\fB[\-]\fR), or
in conflict (\fB[!]\fR).
.
.SS dfy list
List all available packages with their one-line description (taken from
the package \fIREADME.md\fR).
.
.SS dfy info \fIPKG\fR
Display the \fIREADME.md\fR of \fIPKG\fR.
When \fI$EDITOR\fR is set the README is opened in the editor;
otherwise it is printed with \fBcat\fR.
.
.SS dfy create \fIPKG\fR [\-s \fIPATH\fR]
Scaffold a new package directory with a README template.
The optional \fB\-s\fR/\fB\-\-subdir\fR flag pre-creates a
subdirectory inside the package (e.g.\& \fB\-s .config/btop\fR
creates \fIPKG/.config/btop/\fR).
.
.SS dfy doctor
Check for broken symlinks pointing into the dotfiles repository and
warn about a stow version that is too old.
.
.SS dfy update
Pull the latest changes from the Dotlify clone and refresh shell
completions.
.
.SS dfy uninstall
Remove the \fBdfy\fR symlink, shell completions, man page, and
optionally the clone directory and configuration.
.
.SS dfy config get \fIKEY\fR
Print the current value of a configuration key.
If the key is not set, prints the default value.
.
.SS dfy config set \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Write or update a key-value pair in the configuration file.
Creates the file if it does not exist.
.
.SS dfy config list
Print all supported configuration keys with their current value and default.
.
.SS dfy config edit
Open the configuration file in \fI$EDITOR\fR.
Creates the file with a comment header if it does not exist.
Exits with code 1 when \fI$EDITOR\fR is not set.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dotlify/config
Key-value store for persistent configuration.
Supported keys:
.RS
.TP
.B dir
Path to the dotfiles repository (default: \fI~/.dotfiles\fR).
Use \fBdfy config set dir <path>\fR or the \fB--dir\fR flag to override.
.TP
.B lang
UI language: \fBen\fR (default) or \fBes\fR.
.TP
.B notifications
Enable passive git-status checks: \fBtrue\fR (default) or \fBfalse\fR.
Set to \fBfalse\fR to silence all passive warnings.
.TP
.B check_interval
Seconds between git-status checks (default: \fB86400\fR, i.e.\& 24 h).
.TP
.B remind_interval
Seconds before showing an idle reminder (default: \fB604800\fR, i.e.\& 7 days).
.RE
.TP
.I ~/.config/dotlify/last_run
Epoch timestamp of the last \fBdfy\fR invocation, used by the passive
notification check.
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/dfy
Symlink to \fI<clone>/bin/dfy\fR, created by \fBinstall.sh\fR.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/man/man1/dfy.1
Installed man page.
.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
0|Success
1|Generic error
2|Usage error (bad arguments, unknown subcommand)
3|Conflict (target file exists; run \fBdfy adopt\fR or remove it)
4|Missing runtime dependency
.TE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DFY_DIR
Override the dotfiles repository path.
.TP
.B DFY_PROFILE
Active profile name.
.TP
.B DFY_LANG
UI language (\fBen\fR or \fBes\fR).
.TP
.B DFY_DRY_RUN
Set to \fB1\fR to preview changes without writing to disk.
.TP
.B DFY_YES
Set to \fB1\fR to skip all confirmation prompts.
.TP
.B DFY_NO_COLOR
Set to \fB1\fR to disable coloured output.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Standard UNIX no-colour convention; honoured by \fBdfy\fR.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stow (8),
.BR git (1)
.
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later.
See \fIhttps://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html\fR.
